from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 25. Recorded
live Thursday, June 21st, 2012. Support for
Hanselman. This is provided by
Tellerik offering the best of
developer tools and support online.
Add T E L E
R I k.com and by
franklins.net training developers to work
smarter and now offering gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details,
app gesture, PA k.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Damien Edwards about the latest
updates to asp.net 4.5. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today on the
show I've got Damien Edwards.
How's it going, sir? I'm
well, how are you? Good.
You have been all over
the world. You just got
back from Europe or where
did you get back from?
I was in Oslo for
NDC, the Norwegian developers conference
for a week, and then
I flew direct from there
via London to Orlando for
ticket us. And what did
you present on? So in
Norway, I presented on asp.net
for top five what's in
the box and then a
signaler. And I also did
a NDC cage match with
signal with Rob Connery and
John Galloway, where we get signal
out versus a socket IO,
which was a lot of
fun. And then in Orlando,
I presented on asp.net, loves
HTML five asp.net or its
mobile and tablet development phrase,
be.net. And then again on
signaler. Wow. That's a lot
of presenting who would have
signed you up for so
many presentations. I cannot possibly
imagine who would have told
me I had to do
those presentations. I appreciate that.
You're doing those though. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, I, to
be totally honest, I generally
don't like doing talks that
I didn't write myself. Yeah.
But those two talks, I
did it take, it went
over really well and they
actually scored amazingly. I had
880 people at the HTML
five talk, which blew me
away. And then the mobile
talk said I had 1300
people, but I think the
room only sat six 50.
So I don't know where
the other 700 odd people
were unless there was an
overflow room, but I'll take
it. Right. And those are
talks that the mobile one
I've done before. And Steve
Sanderson did those demos. Did
you? And I know that.
I know what you're saying.
Like I don't like doing
talks that someone else wrote
either. Except if that Steve
Sanderson. Yeah. Well, if someone
else has done the hard
work and make you look
good, then I can't really
complain Kevin. Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
Well, I just got back
from the Phoenix day of
the GU Scott goo has
been going down to Phoenix
for the last seven or
eight years and They've, they've
expanded it to anyone named
Scott. Oh, nice. So Scott Brady
gastro. Yeah. Scott, Brady, guests,
and anyone else who chooses
to change their name to
be a part of the
event. So that was cool.
And we did a thousand
or 1200 people in a
big art house and it
was cool. And I know
if some people think that
we're out there kind of
beating the drum and trying
to get the word out,
that's one way to do
it. But I think they
forget that, you know, when,
when 50,000 people read your
blog every day, a thousand
people in person, that's not
the best way to get
the word out, but it's
the conversations afterwards. That's, what's
useful. It's not just the
talks. It's the, it's the
showing them new stuff, really
new stuff, which we are
now, we now, and actually
for the last few years,
I've been allowed to do
daily builds and then finding
out what they really think
about it. I ha I've
been actually segmenting my talks
up a little bit lately
by developer. So I'll go
or, you know, by developer
of the technology. So I'll
go and say, you know,
here's what Mads Christianson's been
working on. And then I'll
have daily builds of stuff
that Mads will have given
me the day before. Right.
You know what I mean?
And then show him that
and see what they think.
Yeah. Yeah. I showed your
open auth stuff. Yes. Maybe
you can talk about that
because people went bananas for
that. Yes. With a visual
studio, 2012 and.net four, five,
we shipped support for logging
into your website via open
ID or OAuth in the
web pages templates, I think
right back in the first
beader. And since then, obviously
we've, we've always planned to
have the support in not
just web pages, but in
MVC and web forms as
well, but it kept sort
of getting pushed back, pushed
back, pushed back. And so
I can glad to say
that it is going to
be in the RTM release.
And I was lucky enough
to actually do the development
work for making the web
forms, you know, version of
this work. So com RTM
of vs 2012. When you
say file new project, you'll
be able to, by default
in your website, very easily
add support for looking in
via Google or Facebook or
Microsoft account or, you know,
whatever it is. It might
be to any of those
project types, which will be
great When I was showing
that yeah, a couple of
the days ago, one of
the things that I think
is deceptively complex about it
and I, and as someone
who has implemented open ID,
if I remember correctly, I
did it in with open
dotnet open ID in 2006
or 2007 with DAS blog.
And then I used open
off to add Twitter logins
and stuff to near dinner
a couple of years ago.
So it hasn't been super
hard except, and this is
where the deceptively complex part
comes in. I think about
it in the context of
a real world membership system,
right. You're logging in as
a remote, as an external
subscription first and you no
local subscription. And then you,
it, what if you log
in as a internal subscription,
an internal authorization, like I'm,
I'm as Hanselman, let's say
on nerd dinner. And then
I associate external. There's a
lot of permutations there. What
if I remove some, I
mean, how many different scenarios
are there that we have
to handle and make it
all still work with membership?
Yeah, that's a really good
point. I mean, we wanted
to go beyond just doing
the easiest thing, which is,
let me log in with
Twitter because as you rightly
point out, we have an
existing membership system in asp.net,
which a lot of people
use. We have sort of
this simple membership system, which
is kind of an augmenting
version of that, which is
using web pages and the
new version of MVC. So
what does it mean to
add external authentication? So as
you, as you said, I
can come to the side,
having never been to the
site before I can then
choose to log in via
Twitter or Facebook. And now
I have some record on
this website saying that I
can log in via Twitter,
but I don't have a
password for this website, but
I could also be an
existing user that has a
standard username or password. And
then I want to associate
an existing, external credential, like
my Facebook account with that
local credential so that I
can log in with either.
And then at some point
in the future, I may
want to remove my Facebook
association, just leaving the ability
to log in with username
and password. So we added
all of those scenarios so
that you can either be
an existing user that adds
Twitter. You can be just
a Twitter user, then adds
a local password. You can
add more than one external
credentials. So you could have
two Twitter accounts linked to
a local user or a
Twitter and a Facebook account
linked to a local user.
We protect against you deleting
your last way to log
in was an interesting one.
Right? I have a bunch
of externals and you start
removing, Oh, I don't use
Twitter anymore. Oh, I always
don't Facebook anymore. Right. Oh.
But I have no other
way to log into this
site. That was really good.
Yeah. So, I mean, especially
when you think about the
web again, the naive thing
to do with them is
just the, like when we
rendered the page check, if
this is the only as
I check, if they have
a local password and if
they don't check how many
external credentials they've got registered,
and if it's more than
one show the delete button,
but of course this is
the web and things are
asynchronous and happen at the
same time. And there are
often delays. And so you
can easily envisage a scenario
where I have two tabs
open and I've rendered sort
of the managed account page
in both without realizing it.
And I delete one account
from one page and then
I forget, and then, you
know, 50 minutes later, I
come back to the other
tab and I go, Oh
yeah, I was going to
delete this one. And I
delete the other one because
that page is still showing
that I have two accounts,
even though I'd previously deleted
one of them. And then
I delete the other account
and now I have no
way to log in. So
we actually had to do
that in such a way
that it's protected by our
transaction in the database. So
that no matter how you
get to the point where
you want to delete an
account, we absolutely fundamentally prevent
you from deleting your last
way to log in. Cause
it's actually a serialized transaction
in the database. Now this
is something that Sits on
top of membership and a
guy that I was talking
to, and this is, this
is the kind of cool
information and feedback that we
get when we talk to
people in person is he
says, well, I have membership.
Now I have an existing
membership system that really works
fine. The database is there.
It's full, we're doing a
lot of cool stuff with
it. What's what's going to
happen here. I'm gonna, I'm
gonna upgrade to four or
five. And how am I
going to add whatever needs
to be added to my
database? Is there a conversion
process? What we did for?
So as I said, web
forms is a little bit
different. So web pages and
MVC, both uses sync called
simple membership, which sort of
sits on top of membership,
but it also ignores a
big part of the membership
API APIs, because it's an
attempt to sort of redefine
how membership and ESPN on
networks. But if you have
an existing membership system that's
using sort of using an
asp.net membership provider or a
custom provider, you wrote the
way we implemented it in
web forms is we have
a sort of a package
is called Microsoft dot ASP,
net.membership.open off, which allows you
to add open or support
to any asp.net site that
is using the asp.net membership
system. And then what it
does is under the covers,
it takes, it takes a
dependency on dotnet open auth,
which is an open source,
you know, sort of new
get packages for doing open
orphanages, but on natural dinette
in general. And it takes
a dependency on entity framework
and it will create for
you automatically using ETF code.
First, those mapping tables that
are required to map a
local ASP net membership user
to one or more external
accounts. And so if you
had an existing site first,
you would need to, the
easiest thing to do would
be to create a completely
new site. I'm not certainly,
I'm not suggesting you delete
your old one. What I'm
saying is create a new
one in visual studio, use
that to get the assets
that you want for your
resisting site, because there are
some new pages in there,
like manager account. There's a
user control that you can
add that gives you the
buttons login with Twitter login
with Facebook, that type of
stuff, grab those assets out
of there, copy them into
your site and then just
buy a new gate. You
can new get in this
sort of shim package that
will then pull in.net open
or for you. Then you
can, now that you have
all those assets in your
project, you can hook them
up because there's code in
those pages as well. But
does all of the hookup
to those packages in today's
API And what do you
need is an additional table
and a additional column that
hooks that? Yeah. Yeah. So
the way that the membership
one works is that it
doesn't affect the membership tables
themselves. It adds an extra
set of mapping tables, which
it creates for you automatically
using ETF, but there are
properties on those API, so
you can change the table
name and those types of
things. So it's fairly customizable.
Everything's also behind interfaces so
that if you don't want
to use sort of the
easiest set of a, we
have like a multilevel API,
I'm really, I'm, I'm, I'm
a big fan of these
API designs where you have
a fully customizable behind an
interface to port dependent, you
know, supports dependency, injection, and
unit testing, sort of API
level. And then you have
the really brain dead. Just
give me a static class
with a bunch of methods
on it that Coles into
that level. And so the
templates by default use the
static type that has all
the easy methods, but if
you wanted to not use
that and instead go to
the direct, you know, full
unit, testable, fully dependence and
dependency injection sort of supported
level, you could do that
as well. And again, it's
all Casa where you can
set the properties, you can
set the connection string by
default, it'll look at the
connection string for the configure
provider. It'll look, it'll has
a default table name, et
cetera, but you can change
those things. So if we
use web pages or MVC
or web forms, everyone will
have the option to use
open auth to log into
their system. Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
They basically all have feature
parity. Now, the other thing
I wanted to point at
at why it's sort of
more complex at a may
at first seem is that
you're talking about letting people
log into your website and
letting them create accounts on
your website. So that's a
serious, serious security thing that
you're talking about here. And
we did a lot of
work to ensure that we
plug up all of the
holes that we could identify
that could potentially let people
do nefarious things with your
authentication system. Some of the,
some of the really common
things that things like cross
site request forgery or phishing
attacks, where I craft a
special link that I then
get someone else to click.
Now, this may be someone
that I know has an
account on your website, or
I suspect they do, or
they might not even. And
then when they click that
link, I can craft a
post to this website and,
you know, potentially log that
person either in, as me
and then convince them to
enter sensitive information about themselves
into my account so that
now I can see their
sensitive information or perhaps I
convince them to click a
link that associates my Facebook
account with their local accounts.
So now I can log
in as them using my
Facebook account. Those are the
types of things that we
had to protect against now
web pages and MVC has
a built in cross-site request,
forgery protection mechanism, which this
stuff utilizes for web forms.
What we did is we
in the master page, in
the new project template, we
added cross-site request forgery support
to the master page. And
so that all the pages
in the template get the
sort of protections such that
they can't be posted to
from another side, Is that
something we would want to
put in web forms baked
in? It would be, I
mean, again, this is, unfortunately
this was something that we
realized sort of too late.
And we, when we were
building the feature, we're like,
wow, we really need the
support. It's too late to
put it in the runtime,
but let's put it in
the template to show people
we'll aim to secure the
template and B show people
how they can do this
using the existing features that
are in web form. So
we actually utilize features like
view, state, encryption, and view,
state, user keys to ensure
that we can push stuff
into view, state roundtrip it
in a secure fashion so
that we know that the
page came from the server
originally. Yeah, actually I remember
using view state user key
in 2005, 2006, that was
doing, do you say user
K? I actually did a
whole series of blog posts
on it, as I remember
was a really powerful way
to make sure that you
flip a switch and make
things just a little bit
more secure because we were
doing banking sites. Right, right.
Okay, cool. So all that
stuff will be open source
and that'll all be out
of the box so people
can tear it apart, play
with it, change it, do
whatever they want to with
it. Yeah. That's absolutely the
intent. So it'll all be
on new get, they can
pull it into existing pack
into existing projects and hopefully
it's, it's a good example
of how to do this
stuff as well. Okay. So
the other thing that we
both presented on was signal
R and we're going to
be talking about it more
and more as a signal
R was a weekend project
for you and David Fowler. And
now is it going to
become more than a weekend
project? I, It is. It
is. So I think you
announced not that long ago,
one of the conferences you
were at, maybe it was
Russia. I can't remember. I
think it was, yeah, that
we're, we're gonna pull signal
out in. So it's being
promoted from a, when we
have time in our own
time moonlighting project to a
fully funded, fully supported sort
of sub component of the
greater asp.net ecosystem. And so
it's going to be part
of the Microsoft open source
web stack runtime as we
conduct what we like to
call it. So we're just
in the process of starting
that now. So David and
I are just figuring out
what that means. Now it's
sort of spinning up a
local team in the holes
here of building 18 to
start working on that. And
I've literally have on my
desktop open right now, sort
of the executive review, PowerPoint
of the signal, a roadmap
to version one, because that's
what we have to do
now that we're a Microsoft
project. Right. You need to
finish it, we need to
finish it. Right. We can't
just do this now. So
we, we I'm, I'm now
we're now putting together sort
of this road two V
one, and obviously we'll share
this roadmap on publicly very,
very shortly and get feedback
on it. So, So how
does, how does that work?
Is it still going to
be on GitHub and under,
under, I think it's under
Fowler's name or is this,
I mean, how do we
get, how do we get
the word out? That's an
interesting question. So today, yeah.
So today it's a repository
on GitHub. It has its
own organization. We created the
signal out organization on GitHub
of which David and I
are members. And so it
has its own repository and
it, you know, it's actually
the number two watched GitHub
C-sharp repository now, which is
kind of cool. Like it's
great that we've got that
much support on GitHub for
a C sharp report. I'm
actually, I'm just gonna check
again because we we're trying
to get to number one,
but this is one project
above us, which is less
than 50 watches above us.
Right now we're at 1,612
and it's at 1,680 or
something like that. So we're
really, we're sort of chasing
up on these guys. So
it's there at the moment.
I'm not sure if it's
going to stay there or
not. You know, we have
other, the rest of the
open source web stack runtime
is on code Plex. So
that's, you know, web API,
MVC, web pages, razor, all
those things are OncoPLEX. So
I'm not sure whether we
have to move it there
and we're still figuring that
stuff out. And the end
of the day, it doesn't
really matter. I mean, it's
source code as long as
it's there. And it's good
when I'm kind of happy.
So, you know, beyond that
it will a new get
package. It'll probably be included
in some future web stack,
runtime release, whatever that looks
like. But our goal is
to get a version one
of signaler out by the
end of the year. That's
cool. How do you think
we should tell people about
it? Like if we, if
we get it into the
templates by updating the templates
afterwards, file new signal, our
applications, right, Right. Yeah. I
think we should definitely have
item templates so that you
could, in any asp.net project,
say, add a signal, a
hub, or a signal, a
connection, and you could get
that. It would use new,
get to pull in signal,
or if you didn't have
it already, a project template
is an interesting idea. I'm,
I'm not sure that signaler
is a good fit for
like a brand new project.
I think part of the
one ASP net thing is
we really want to encourage
people this, you know, this
Lego, you know, sort of
mindset where they can start
an ASP net application. And
then, Hey, I want some
real time, Hey, I want
an HVP API, Hey, I
want some dynamic data scaffolded
stuff and just choose what
they want either at the
beginning of the project or
at any time in the
future of the project. And
so I think actually as
we move forward, we're going
to see a deemphasis on
this idea of file. You
web API project file, new
MVC project file, new dynamic
data project. It'll just be
file new ASP net project.
And then you choose what
type of things do you
need in your application? And
as I said, not just
upfront, but also anytime in
the future, How much thought
is being put into what
was one asp.net will look
like now I'm kind of
asking loaded questions cause I'm
involved in it. And I
know it, but of course,
you know, w w w
asp.net for me means saying
file new project and having
it not be a series
of choices that are scary,
right. You know, it should
be, I want an asp.net
project, no matter what kind
of project you're going to
make, it's going to start
out as an asp.net project.
And then I want to
be able to say, I'd
like this, and I'd like
this, not like this. And
like for the example that
you're giving about open auth,
you know, I, the first
thing I said was, how
do I add that to
my existing application? You know,
and that's not an easy
answer today, right? But with
well-organized new, get packages that
know about other new get
packages, you know, things can
plug in. We saw, we
saw you, you and I
have presented. And we we've,
we've shown people, some stuff
like some, some prototypes where
I could start with an
empty application file, new empty,
and bring in an NBC
starter or web form starter
web, a web pages starter
that all talked to the
same model. They all kind
of imagine a dependency tree
where, you know, microsoft.asp.net, web
forms dot sample depends on
a model sample like a
stock ticker or something. If
we all use the same
stock, ticker in writing that
sample, we could bring in
all sorts of ridiculous, calm,
competent torics, and it would
all just work out of
the box. Yeah. And the
thing I love about that
approach is it really sort
of levels the playing field
as such between the three
sort of higher end frameworks
that we have in asp.net.
And, and, and it's, it
reduces this argument of, Oh,
it's a web phones project,
or it's an MVC project
too. It's an asp.net project.
And if you want to
have some pots, if your
app using web forms, because
it's particularly good at doing
certain types of UI, versus
I want this part to
be web API or this
part to be MVC, you
can, you absolutely can do
that. Now, today, we haven't
done the best job, and
this is more than just
a philosophy, you know, it's
part, philosophy and messaging. And
it's also part driving how
we do features and how
we do tooling. What we
haven't done particularly well today
is setting up the tooling
experience and the development experience
in general, to these type
of heterogeneous sort of hybrid
applications, which in reality are
all applications. You know, I
doubt there is any application
out there in reality, where
there's strictly a web forms
application that has only ever
had stuff dragged and dropped
onto the surface and, you
know, stuff in the property
grid set. You know, everybody
has to pull in other
libraries and tweak various things
in your hand, write custom
parts of the application to
make it do what you
do. I mean, software is
complicated. We can never make
it completely easy, but we
can, I think you said
this, but we can smooth
over those edges as much
as we possibly can. Yeah,
exactly, exactly. And that's the
goal. So, I mean, I'm
hoping that there'll be additional
improvements because we're going to
be able to ship stuff
post RTM. And that's really
an important point. That's a
big change too. I mean,
that's, that's something that I'm
really looking forward to in
terms of, of what we
can do as a team,
because, you know, previously it's
been, we have the.net framework
and we have visual studio
and those were our ship
vehicles. And then with the
advent of MVC, we kind
of broke from the pack
and said, well, we'd really
like to be able to
iterate more frequently. And now
that mentality is, is sort
of falling back to everything
else we do. So as
you said, from visual studio,
2012, when it RTMS, w
some of the stuff, a
lot of the stuff that
we have in visual studio
in including the core tooling,
the project systems and the
editors, and those types of
things that are now updatable
out of band. So we
can release new versions of
the templates. We can release
new wizards, we can release
new designers and, and, and
various other aspects of tooling,
which is gonna really free
us up to, to add
value on a continuing basis.
What all has been pulled
out like what has been
externalized? That's a really good
question. The, the really big
thing is if you have
visual studio, 2012 installed, you
can go to the extension
manager and you you'll see
an entry called a web
tooling extensions. I think it
is. Or let me have
a look right here. I
think it's, if you go
into tools and then go
to extensions and updates, and
you look at what's installed,
there is something called web
tooling extensions. And that includes
things like page inspector. So
the new sort of, I
E hosted inside visual studio
that gives you the amazing
sort of debugging of your
HTML capability is called patient
specter. That's in there. All
of the web forms templates
are in the web tooling
extensions. We can also deliver
extensions to the editor so
we can improve the HTML,
CSS and JavaScript editors out
of band because of the
plugability of the visual studio
editor system, even project system
stuff. So the MVC tooling
itself, we get new context
menus, we get new wizards,
we get the MVC scaffolding
dialogue, which lets you create
new controllers and views. That
is all updatable out of
band as well. And if,
for instance, we've actually just
started this week, work on
the web form, scaffolding. This
is something we've been wanting
to do for a very
long time. And so we're
starting work on that now.
So the idea is you'll
be able to say in
a web, in an ACE,
but on that project, right,
mouse click add new item.
And then in the new
item template list, there'd be
a scaffolded web form and
you click on that, give
it a name hit. Okay.
And then another dialogue would
show, which will be very
similar to the MVC ad
controller dialogue, where you can
say, well, I just want,
you know, I want to
scaffold a web form based
on this entity framework context
and using model binding. And
it will scaffold all that
out for you. I remember
that I saw a prototype
of that and I talked
about prototypes of, of web
form scaffolding a long time
ago. Why do I say
that? Kind of like I'm
torpedoing here a little bit,
because I'm like a huge
advocate of that. And I've
been trying to get web
form scaffolding. They haven't, I
know you love web forms,
so you want to get
that as well. Why do
things like that? You know,
get postponed. We were not
a big team at the
end of the day. We
only have a literally a
handful of developers working on
certain features. The NBC team
is small. The web API
team is small. The web
forms team is small. The
core ASP net runtime team
is small. And so we've
been part, you know, obviously
a major focus for the
last two years has since,
since we shipped visual studio
2010 and.net four has been.net
four dot five. And so
we've been really busy doing.net
four dot five. And as
part of the planning of
that, it was like, well,
this is what we're going
to do for web forms.
We want to do model
binding. We want to do
on the truths of validation
we want to do. Async
we'd really like to do
these other things, but you
know, these could be done
out of band. These don't
require updates to.net four or
five. So we actually, when
we did the planning up
exercise, we said, what absolutely
has to be done in
the box, what can't we
possibly do out of band?
So we separated the out
of band potential items, and
we said, let's put those
in a backlog. We'll get
to those once we finished
doing dotnet four, five. So
we fixed what we, what
we did the work that
we absolutely had to do
in band, because they require
updates to parts of the
system that we can't ship,
unless we ship a new
version of.net. And now that
that work is finished or
is winding up, we're moving
on to the stuff that
we can do out of
band. Okay, Cool. Because one
of the things that I
said that in Phoenix was
that, you know, the internet
is moving really, really fast.
And if you try to
get something right, and you
only have, you know, there's
one window within 18 months
to do it, you're probably
gonna get it wrong. And
then it's going to sit
around for 18 months. So
we're trying to get the
core stuff, correct. And then
set up a system by
which we can deliver updates
on a regular basis because,
you know, vigils through to
2012 might not be updated
for a year or two,
but the web is going
to have all sorts of
fun and interesting things happening,
you know, real time is
just one as an example,
for sure. So we can
change the templates. We can
change new libraries. The other
thing that I think is
cool about new gettin I'm
interested as in your opinion,
as an open source person,
is that, do you think
that we're setting people up
where open source projects in
new get aren't necessarily, man,
I was going to say
competing, but we're, we're trying
to level the playing field
a little bit. So when
someone's, you know, in the
past people have said, Oh,
Microsoft just killed my open
source project. I would like
to set up the system
such that Microsoft just made
an opportunity for my open
source project. Right? Like bundling
for example, right? Like you
could declare your bundling tool
dead, or you could plug
your bundling stuff into the
framework directly now, right? Yeah,
absolutely. Now I think at
the end of the day,
open source in.net is still
in its infancy. If you
look at sort of it's
mind share amongst the greater.net
community, I mean, there are
millions of.net developers literally, and
we know a lot of
those haven't had great exposure
to sort of using and
incorporating open source software into
their products. Yet we know
there are still companies out
there that flatly refuse to
use open source libraries in
their projects. So I look
at it as part of
ways that when Microsoft starts
doing open source, it makes
open source better for everybody.
And so sure as we
do that, there are going
to be cases where perhaps
we release an open source
library that has some overlap
with an existing library that
was in the field. But
there are going to be
a lot of times where
if we hadn't have done
that, there would be a
large portion of customers that
perhaps would never have even
considered the other sort of
open source versions. So I
think part of that leveling
the play playing field, isn't
about, isn't just about us
competing with open source libraries.
It's about raising the perception
of what open source software
is to customers who previously
wouldn't have even considered open
source. And then in doing
that, hopefully make it easier
for other open source libraries
to get used by that
class of customer. Does that
make sense? Yeah. But do
you think that if, if,
if the open source people
aren't digging something, some of
the things that we're doing,
should we try to, if
we even try to get
them to love us, you
know what I mean? Like
we were not Ruby and
we're not, you know, we
aren't, we aren't these other
things we should develop our
own culture. Sure. Yes, I
think so. I mean, we
have traditional strengths, which perhaps
different to the strength of
these other ecosystems. And I
think we can, the ecosystems
can learn from each other.
I mean, you know, there
are things and we've certainly
done that. That's why the
shape of.net has, has changed
somewhat in the last few
years, but I don't think
we should, that should just
result in a massive pendulum
swing from what we've been
really strong at traditionally to
some completely new model that
perhaps has the risk of
alienating our, you know, our
existing strong customer base. I
think we need to find
that way of, of making
sure that we stay relevant
to our existing customers and
continue to deliver value to
them while also, you know,
perhaps loosening up in other
areas and one of a
better term, but becoming more
attractive so that people who
are making that choice about
what platform or what ecosystem
they want to sort of
onboard onto are attracted to
what we're doing because of
perhaps reasons that were not
traditionally associated with while maintaining
all those, you know, those
strengths that we traditionally had.
No, that's, that's not an
easy thing to do sometimes,
but you know, I, I'm
an advocate internally. I'm sort
of the last thing I
want us to do is
get to a point where
in five or 10 years,
we, we turn around and
then realize we don't have
all those people following us
that we thought we did.
The last thing we want
to do is become irrelevant
because we think that what
we have is so strong
or we're so drunk, strong,
and our existing customer base
that we don't need to
change. We always need to
be aware of, you know,
changing trends and even driving
new trends when we have
to. Correct. Cool. I'm glad
I think things are working
out. I mean, I think
things are starting to happen.
I feel at least from
the web team, I'm not
speaking about Microsoft at the
larger Microsoft, but for us,
I think we're starting to
execute in a way that
may is making me happy.
I think that the, the
Lego stories and the open
source focus and, you know,
with Azure and with get
everywhere now, I think that
we're going to do some
damage in the best possible
way. Yeah, I think so.
I'm going to, I really
think that this is the
philosophy behind one asp.net that
is, is positive all across
it. I think no one
loses in that. So Very
cool. Well, thanks for chatting
with me. Not a problem.
I'd love to, I'd love
to talk to you all
the time. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.